+++
title = "In-person Meeting"

date = 2018-12-05T13:51:56-08:00
# lastmod = 2018-09-09T00:00:00

draft = false  # Is this a draft? true/false
toc = true  # Show table of contents? true/false
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.

# Add menu entry to sidebar.
linktitle = "November 15, 2017 (conference call)"
[menu.meetings]
  parent = "CVPIA SIT"
  weight = 3
+++

## November 15, 2017 [Slides](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/cvpia-meeting-slides/Nov+15+conference+call.pdf)

## Participants:

Felipe Carrillo, JD Wikert, Shelly Hatleberg, Mike Wright, Michelle Workman, Mike Berry, Sadie Gill, Mike Hendrick, Stephanie Theis, Towns Burgess, Chuck Hanson, Adam Duarte

The SIT began the meeting by reviewing the summary of the habitat restoration and screening diversions projects. Chuck asked if the cost estimates included costs of easements, permitting, and environmental compliance. Shelly said she was pretty sure the diversion screening costs do, but she will check on that for both the screening diversions and habitat restoration cost estimates. JD talked about how a fish per dollar is a better comparison because the costs can vary markedly tributary by tributary. Michelle agreed and said that projects on the Mokelumne are much cheaper than what is listed in the summary of CVPIA project costs. She also said that she is okay with using these values of amounts of habitat created and number of diversions screened as a unit of effort as long as we disconnect the estimated costs from for our process. Adam agreed with JD and Michelle and clarified that the SIT is not concerned about the absolute costs but that we were using an estimated cost per acre or cfs screened to develop what a unit of habitat creation would be. That is, the SIT is not looking at marginal gains (i.e., fish per dollar) because that is outside our concern. That is something the Core Team can consider in their efforts. Instead, the SIT is trying to evaluate scenarios that are more comparable than %ESHE or something similar. JD agreed that that made sense. He said that most projects include the creation of multiple habitat types and that it would be beneficial to include this information in our efforts. Adam said that this is certainly something the SIT can evaluate if they want. It would simply be a scenario, or set of scenarios, that involve the creation of multiple habitat types in a specific watershed. JD said that information is out there and he will pull it together.

The SIT then looked at the SIT monitoring data needs sheet. Adam asked if there were any columns that seemed redundant, if the SIT would like to see another column, if they felt a data source was missing from the sheets, etc. JD said he agreed with Matt that the coordination/utilization and cost share columns were outside of the SIT&#39;s needs and should be tracked at the Core Team level. Shelly mentioned those two columns were similar and that she would talk to Rod to get clarification on the differences between the two. Michelle asked if the sheet with specific questions can be sent out. Adam said he would include it in the material sent out to the SIT.

The SIT was notified of the habitat decay function meeting that will take place on the 28th. JD said that we should also consider a habitat increase function. For example, when they plant small trees for floodplain creation those trees grow over time and create more/better habitat. Shelly said she will send out new information of how to access the meeting. JD, Michelle, and Mike B. would like to be included in these efforts.

SIT discussed the current flow scenarios for Mill, Deer and Clear Creeks. Mike B. said the water branch at CDFW will present at the December meeting concerning this for at least Mill Creek. He said the current Mill and Deer Creek flow scenarios are a bare minimum, not optimal, but that Clear Creek flow scenarios are optimal.

## Marching Orders

All

- Review summary of information on screening diversions and habitat restoration for discussion at next SIT meeting
- Notify Shelly if you would like to see the summary of information another way.
- Review SIT Monitoring Data Needs sheet and get comments to Shelly before next SIT meeting

Shelly

- Check to make sure cost estimates for screening diversions and habitat restoration include costs associated with easements, permitting and environmental compliance.
- Send out new information on the habitat decay function proposal meeting. Add JD, Michelle, and Mike B. to the contact list for this.

Next in-person meeting topics

- Talk about timeline and tasks to be completed for developing a AFP Restoration Strategy
- John Hutchings will give an update on past CVPIA projects that were funded
- Josh will present information on pulse flows in Sac River, based on SacPass
- Water branch at CDFW will present information concerning Mill Creek flow scenarios