+++
title = "In-person Meeting"

date = 2018-12-05T13:51:56-08:00
# lastmod = 2018-09-09T00:00:00

draft = false  # Is this a draft? true/false
toc = true  # Show table of contents? true/false
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.

# Add menu entry to sidebar.
linktitle = "June 20-21, 2018 (in-person)"
[menu.meetings]
  parent = "CVPIA SIT"
  weight = 3
+++


## June 20–21, 2018 [Slides](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/cvpia-meeting-slides/CVPIA+SIT+June+20%2621+meeting+slides.pdf)

# Day 1 - Cottage Way, Sacramento

## Participants:
Mike Urkov, Russ Perry, Robyn Bilski, Cesar Blanco, Chris Hammersmark, Dan Kratville, Lisa Hunt, Will Satterwaite, Douglas Killam, Dick Pool, Corey Phillis, Rod Wittler, Felipe Carrillo, Brett Harvey, Mike Berry, Matt Brown, Tanya Sheya, JD Wikert, Flora Cordoleani, Towns Burgess, Shane Abeare, John Hutchings, Heather Casillas, Jim Peterson, Adam Duarte

## Watershed Expert Meeting Update

Region 4, 5, and 6 have been scheduled. In the next week we will start scheduling 1, 2, and 3. Emails will be going out as the dates get closer. These meetings will focus on all runs of Chinook.

## Update on proposals

We had a phone call with habitat decay group on Monday. Adam is creating a questionnaire for this to track down data associated with this and proposed methods to analyze these data.

There is a subgroup meeting taking place for food for fish July 16th. Rod talked to Rene about food for fish (releasing water from rice fields) and he has been working on a charter concerning this. It does not look like Rene is writing a SIT proposal for this. Brett has written one for the duck ponds food for fish scenario and he will look at keeping these 2 scenarios on the same proposal. Shane will invite Jacob Katz to the meeting. Dan recommended contacted Carson Jeffries.

Ocean Survival: Will is talking to us this afternoon about his previous analysis. From here, we will set up a follow up meeting to talk more about this. Dick will write up something about the half moon bay project.

## Update on fall run Chinook integrated analysis

Adam and Jason are going to talk next week to discuss water management of the Feather River. Dick has information on where hatchery releases have occurred for last 10 years. Robyn said that we would want to note which are experimental releases and the proportion that are marked. Corey said we should email Anna Sturrock for this information as well. Adam should ask Jason about spring/fall mix and how that related to spawning habitat. This could also be related to density dependence. May also consider a month effect on efficiency as a proxy for fish size. Dan warned against pooling the data without considering differences in trap operations and fish management.

## Proposed Special Section in Journal of Fish and Wildlife Management

Jim and Adam discussed the potential for putting together a special section on the CVPIA efforts. We will send out the outline to everyone for feedback and so folks can add their name where they see fit. Adam, Jim, and Leads will draft a narrative of what each one of these papers will be to see if the journal is interested in this special section. Matt said that Butte Creek would be a good example of learning while managing.

## Review current Chinook Scenarios

Adam reviewed the units of effort. Shane talked about the diversion information he was able to provide. Matt wanted to know how representative this list is. Shane will coordinate with Mike U. to see how the database relates to the modeled diversions in the current DSM. Matt said there is a state list of all the diversions that has been updated by department of fish and wildlife. Check with Ryon Kurth and Jonathan Nelson for this. Was started by the Fisheries Branch, maybe George Edwards.

Floodplain scenarios:

There is a ruleset associated with the frequency of inundation. Chris said that something that inundates every year is likely to behave and have the same benefits of a perennially inundated habitat. Mike U. can send the link to the Shiny app Sadie developed to look at floodplain activation. Lisa noted the uncertainty associates with the 0.27 suitability factor. Lisa can send information on this and how it is related to the flow.

Hatchery fish management scenarios:

JD said Brad Cavallo may have updated estimates from the Pyper et al. 2012 paper. Dick said he has information on the effects of hatchery fish too. Mokelumne and Ken Newman have done studies on trucking hatchery fish and the stray rates associated with that. For terminal fishery, Mike B. and Dick are okay with using information from the Columbia River. We may want to consider flagging years in which the hatcheries don&#39;t get enough fish to do hatchery operations based on these hatchery scenarios. We may also keep track of harvest, because it may dramatically reduce harvest.

Actions in the delta:

Increase accessibility to rearing North Delta habitat, Dec – April. Check the EIR/EIS for estimates of the proportion that move. Contact Brett Harvey and Russ Perry for this. Corey said that that any flow that is going down the Yolo need to be subtracted from what is going down the Sacramento R.

Flow manipulation:

For Mill and Deer Creek we are reducing diversions to achieve those increased flows. For geomorphic pulse flows, Clear Creek has this information.

## Discuss the use of CWT data to estimate ocean entry survival

Might look at using a different ocean index instead of ocean transition. If we expand to fish from different hatcheries we need to make sure other variables are not confounded with hatchery (like body size or timing of release within and across years). Spring run yearlings \&lt;- maybe borrow estimates from Trinity River Hatcheries, but none of these fish are trucked. Mokelumne and Coleman have released yearling size fish in the past. Russ said that there has been a thesis on spring run that he can share.

## Update on compiling a list of all CVPIA projects since 1992

John showed some of the progress he has made and where there are holes.

## Update on modeling water temperatures

Mike W. gave an update on his efforts. Mike U. said we should ask folks at the watershed expert meetings if they have temperature gage data for their streams. Matt said AFRP put stream gages in spring run tributaries. Might talk to Doug Killam for these data. Might also look at photoperiod too.

## Update on O. mykiss and Chinook growth

Jim gave a review on this. Matt would like access to the references Jim referred to. Mike said this was a good place to start. Russ suggested using a 2/3 max consumption based on J. Armstrong&#39;s paper. Robyn suggested making sure the data come from above the dams.



# Day 2

## Participants:
JD Wikert, Shane Abeare, Mark Gard, Russ Perry, Mike Thomas, Alicia Seesholz, Steve Tsao, Rod Wittler, Mike Urkov, Josh Israel, Bill Poytress, Tanya Sheya, Doug Killam, Brett Harvey, Towns Burgess, Jim Peterson, Adam Duarte

## Refine sturgeon objectives and management scenarios

Bill wanted green sturgeon habitat to include pea size gravel. Josh mentioned that new studies are showing that white and green sturgeon using different types of habitats. There is disagreement on this. There is a hypothesis that we need coarser substrate, but they are currently not using these areas. The McAdams studies suggest small substrate is what whites use. Dave Vogel did a tech report found 3 sturgeon in 3 years of sampling entrained in diversions in the Sac R. Bill was saying that the selenium is related to runoff from ag return water, so it&#39;s more like managing water quality or runoff, not managing sediment.  Josh said we want to use the Ethan Mora estimates of potential habitat.

## Review sturgeon conceptual models

Do we want to separate small and large adults due to differences in fecundity? Josh thinks it would be interesting to compare similar and different fecundities based on adult size. That is, compare model runs with the same fecundity and then look at a range in differences (i.e., bigger fish have 10%, 20%, etc. higher fecundity).

## Discuss literature review for sturgeon DSM parameters

## Egg:

- Flow and Contaminants: Nothing empirical
- Substrate embeddedness: Lab study at USGS Turner Falls Facility. Behavior of early life stages of Klamath River Boyd Kynard 2005……Rosely Nguyen 2006 Effects of substrate larval green sturgeon. Also a paper by Parsley that looks at substrate type. Bill can send this.
- Flows on fertilization effect: Nothing empirical. Bill said it is not too much of a concern with the timing. He said it seems more like a salmon hypothesis or more related to white sturgeon. Might be something on whites in the Columbia (Alicia)
- Regina Linville&#39;s dissertation work on maternal transfer of selenium to eggs (2006) (Josh)

## Larvae

- Movement
  - Habitat Complexity: Not sure
  - Movement of larvae to the delta is more of a white sturgeon trait (Bill)
  - Flow: Kynard paper (above) has a hypothesis on this.
  -
- Survival
  - Food Availability: Liam Zarri just put in a paper for review (based on dissertation ask for it UC Santa Cruz) what larvae have been eating (may use this information for habitat designations). There are paper on growth rates in larval fish associated with temp and food. Jen Diang 2002 AFS symposium paper (Josh has). For whites, Wang et al. 1985. Werner et al. 2007 Effects of temperatures and stress on larval development (josh has it). Gisbert 2003 aquatic living resources journal….also a 2001 paper &quot;routine metabolism by larval green sturgeon&quot;.
  - Temperature Maufield and Cech 2004
  - Habitat complexity: substrate seems to be important for whites.
  - Diseases and pathogens: Nothing empirical, but Werner et al. looks at heat shock proteins.
  - Contaminants: White sturgeon papers on contaminates
  - Lee 2008 talks about selenium effects on growth and mortality during larvae and age 0 stage (Josh)

## Age 0

- Survival
  - Alternative food source: Anna Steel has lab work on suitability of Sturgeon as prey (ask her, UC Davis)
  - Disease and pathogen: Nothing empirical
  - Poach: It is so rare that no one keeps track (Mike)
  - Salinity: Peter Allen et al 2009, 2010 has salinity tolerance papers. Mike said there is some newer stuff out of the San Gab lab. One by Poletto  &quot;Behavioural salinity preferences of juvenile green sturgeon _Acipenser medirostris_ acclimated to fresh water and full‐strength salt water&quot; This may be related to age 0 or 1 fish
  - Jang Wong Lee for contaminants Aquatic Toxicology 2011
  - Effect of dietary selenium  Nicola Riu Aquatic Toxicology 2014

- Movement
  - Herring eggs:  (ask Mike Thomas, UC Davis)
  - Body condition:  (ask Mike Thomas, UC Davis)
  - Temperature:  (ask Mike Thomas, UC Davis)

## Age 1

- Survival
  - Alternative food source: Anna Steel has lab work on suitability of Sturgeon as prey (ask her, UC Davis)
  - Disease and pathogen: Nothing empirical
  - Salinity: Peter Allen et al 2009, 2010 has salinity tolerance papers. Mike said there is some newer stuff out of the San Gab lab. One by Poletto  &quot;Behavioural salinity preferences of juvenile green sturgeon _Acipenser medirostris_ acclimated to fresh water and full‐strength salt water&quot; This may be related to age 0 or 1 fish
  - Jang Wong Lee for contaminants Aquatic Toxicology 2011
  - Effect of dietary selenium  Nicola Riu Aquatic Toxicology 2014

- Movement
  - Herring eggs:  (ask Mike Thomas, UC Davis)
  - Body condition:  (ask Mike Thomas, UC Davis)
  - Temperature:  (ask Mike Thomas, UC Davis)

## Juveniles

- Movement
  - Salinity: Peter Allen et al 2009, 2010 has salinity tolerance papers. Mike said there is some newer stuff out of the San Gab lab. One by Poletto  &quot;Behavioural salinity preferences of juvenile green sturgeon _Acipenser medirostris_ acclimated to fresh water and full‐strength salt water&quot; This may be related to age 0 or 1 fish
  - Effect of ontogeny, condition, and temperature on swimming performance by Peter Allen (2006)
  - Juveniles (but not younger) has foraging forays in and out of the delta/bay (Mike did a report for DFW – manuscript in review)
  - Delta Inflows: Part of what Mike was talking about earlier with forays
- Body condition (check out Allen paper for physiological change)

## Subadult

- Food habitats: Lee and Hung from the Columbia. Mcketne and Finner  --- San Pablo and Sisun Bay from 1971. Also a Skinner overview paper of sturgeon life history (Bill). Radkie in 1966.
- Pathogens: White sturgeon Iredell virus

## Adult

- Predation: Mike said he is seeing pinniped predation of adults fairly regularly (Talk with Willamette and Columbia River folks on how to quantify this).

## Habitat availability (greens – where are these data?)

- Spawning: Bill says Steel et al. paper (Bill will send papers) for Sac., There is an agency report with info for Feather and Yuba (Alicia)
- Rearing (freshwater): Bill says there is data on agency technical reports of where they are collecting them. They wrote up a methods type paper on this too. They are going to start looking at physical habitat stuff more this year working with Dave Smith (Army Corps). Alicia has a report for the Feather above Daguirre Point (FERC).
- Delta: Bill has a manuscript from age 0 fish that may come out this winter.

## Next steps for Sturgeon

- Update Sturgeon literature review and create Google Doc of literature review for folks
- Beta model by September
- Work with Mike U. and Mark T. for habitat estimates (Bill suggests working it out by habitat types, freshwater, brackish,  and then by stage…treat larval and age 0 as same habitat type, juveniles first 6 months probability same, but different after that….They are seeing all size classes in the same areas)

## Marching Orders…

Adam

- Create questionnaire for spawning habitat decay data to track down data associated with this and proposed methods to analyze these data.
- Check the EIR/EIS for estimates of the proportion that move. Contact Brett Harvey and Russ Perry for this.
- Update Sturgeon literature review and create Google Doc of literature review for folks



Shane

- Invite Jacob Katz and Carson Jeffries to the food for fish meeting.
- Coordinate with Mike U. to see how the diversion database relates to the modeled diversions in the current DSM. Matt said there is a state list of all the diversions that has been updated by department of fish and wildlife. Check with Ryon Kurth and Jonathan Nelson for this. Was started by the Fisheries Branch, maybe George Edwards.



Special Section

- SIT
  - Provide feedback on proposed special section on the CVPIA efforts outline and leads
- Adam, Jim, and Leads
  - Draft a narrative of what each one of these papers will be to see if the journal is interested in this special section.