+++
title = "In-person Meeting"

date = 2018-12-05T13:51:56-08:00
# lastmod = 2018-09-09T00:00:00

draft = false  # Is this a draft? true/false
toc = true  # Show table of contents? true/false
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.

# Add menu entry to sidebar.
linktitle = "May 9, 2018 (conference call)"
[menu.meetings]
  parent = "CVPIA SIT"
  weight = 3
+++

## May 9, 2018 [Slides](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/cvpia-meeting-slides/May+2018+SIT+meeting.pdf)

## Participants:
John Hutchings, Russ Perry, Don Portz, Flora Cordeloni, Mike Hendrick, Chris Hammersmark, Towns Burgess, Noah Oppenheim, Robyn Bilski, Rene Henery, Brian Wells, Levi Johnson, Mike Urkov, Dick Poole, Lilly Allen, Rod Wittler, Jim Peterson, Adam Duarte

## Summary of the Bay-Delta SDM efforts

Jim gave a brief summary of the Bay-Delta SDM efforts. They are using the same time step and size classes as the SIT&#39;s Chinook model. In fact, they are using the SIT&#39;s Chinook DSM. However, they have broken up the delta into more pieces. He showed a series of maps that the group is using to define their delta regions. The group will be sent a map of their delta sections. Jim also described some of the scenarios the other group are considering. There is some overlap in these with the SIT&#39;s delta scenarios. Dick would like to talk to the Bay-Delta group about the splits closer to the Sacramento due to differential losses of fish. Russ said that the regions in his paper are based on tidal flows, transitional flows, and riverine flows.

## Summary of DSM inputs

Adam and Mike gave a run through of the DSM Inputs, the inputs that we are using to help with model calibration, the Shiny apps FlowWest has developed, etc. The links for all of these resources are included in the meeting slides, but are also included below. The SIT was encouraged to look through these webpages for more information on where the data came from and how the data were compiled.

Flow and diversion information from CALSIM II (1980–1999)

- [DSM inputs](https://flowwest.github.io/cvpiaData/index.html)
- How were data inputs [calculated](https://flowwest.github.io/cvpiaData/articles/create-hab-inputs.html)?

Calibration (~1998–2017, depending on screw-trap location)

- [Calibration](https://github.com/FlowWest/cvpiaCalibration)

SIT Shiny apps

- Updated floodplain [app](https://flowwest.shinyapps.io/cvpiaFloodplainHabitat/)
- Not yet updated instream [app](https://flowwest.shinyapps.io/carrying-capacity-app/)
- Expert outreach [app](https://flowwest.shinyapps.io/Explore-SIT-Model/)

## Proposals outstanding

Jim reviewed the SIT&#39;s process for making changes to the SIT&#39;s DSM. The template for this has been sent out to the SIT, but will be resent out with today&#39;s meeting notes.

## Habitat decay function:

Chris gave a summary of these efforts and the thinking behind the proposal that is being drafted. Currently, the proposal is focused on spawning habitat. Rod said that some of the information John Hutchings has been collected has information on this for spawning and rearing habitat. He has information on the initial conditions (as built), and information on current conditions are still needed. A draft proposal will be sent to the group when it is completed.

## Ocean survival modifications:

A group of folks are working on this (Brian, Rene, Will, Dan, Ian, etc.) and we have a plan on how we want to move forward. Jim will contact Corey to see about the availability of otolith data to help with these efforts. Dick said that we may also want to consider trucking fish as well as size. Bret Kormos is finishing up collating some of the coded wire tag data so this information may be available soon.

## Food for fish (rice field and duck ponds) scenarios:

Rene has been talking to folks on productivity from rice fields that Jacob said he can share a report from. We will work with Bret and Rene to try to get something together.

## Late fall run Chinook salmon DSM:

Jim reviewed the proposal that was sent to the SIT last week. Dick talked about conservation concerns centered on late fall run. One of the concerns that was brought up is that there is currently not a good way to distinguish late fall run and fall run juveniles. Rene said he would like a bit more time to look at it. We will send this out again and make a decision on this in 2 weeks at the in-person meeting.

## Compensation plan scenario:

We will table discussions on this for now until the group decided on late fall run. Dick will start putting a proposal together for this.

## New business

Shane has started coordinating the regional watershed expert meetings.

Shane is trying to secure a room for the next in-person meeting.

Rod would like to propose scenarios based on proposed, ongoing, and completed on-the-ground projects. Rene and Dick liked this idea. Rod asked folks to send him information of past projects they may have. Rene will send information on proposed projects in the Stanislaus to share with the SIT.

## Marching Orders

Jim

- Send SIT the Bay-Delta map with delta sections for their modeling efforts.
- Contact Corey about otolith data for ocean survival proposal

Adam

- Work with Chris for habitat decay proposal

Shane

- Secure a room for next in-person SIT meeting
- Send out regional watershed expert meeting schedule to the SIT