+++
title = "In-person Meeting"

date = 2018-12-05T13:51:56-08:00
# lastmod = 2018-09-09T00:00:00

draft = false  # Is this a draft? true/false
toc = true  # Show table of contents? true/false
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.

# Add menu entry to sidebar.
linktitle = "April 18, 2018 (conference call)"
[menu.meetings]
  parent = "CVPIA SIT"
  weight = 3
+++

## April 18, 2018 [Slides](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/cvpia-meeting-slides/April+2018+meeting.pdf)

## Participants:
Alicia Seeholtz, Mike Urkov, Ammon Daneilson, Steve Zeug, Shane Abeare, Dan Kratville, Cesar Blanco, Lisa Hunt, Chris Hammersmark, Russ Perry, Brett Harvey, Felipe Carrillo, Josh Israel, Jason Hassrick, Mike Hendrick, Stephanie Theis, Bill Poytress, Mike Thomas, Jim Peterson,Adam Duarte

## Review Sturgeon recommended priorities

The SIT reviewed the efforts that were made by the Sturgeon group this year. In particular, the Sturgeon group identified objectives and decision alternatives, scored the decision alternatives based on how they influence the objectives, reviewed the score sheets, had the opportunity to revise scores, reviewed the revised scores, and then developed recommended priorities (5 for White Sturgeon and 5 for Green Sturgeon). The group also identified which of these recommended priorities were data limited. A memo/summary of these efforts will be drafted and sent to the larger group.

## Update regional watershed expert meeting information

Shane has received minimal input on the regional watershed expert meeting information. He will compile what information he has received and send out for another round of comments. Please provide feedback within 1 week.

## Update on unit of effort

The group reviewed the unit of effort information that has been compiled thus far. The group agreed to most of the proposed units of effort. Exceptions were units associated with diversion screening and seasonally inundated lowland rearing habitats. The group agreed that covering all possible project sizes was unreasonable, as there will always be a bigger project. The group wants the lowland habitats to reach a maximum of 1,500 acres. Shane will contact Levi to get more information on the larger diversions screening projects.

## Update on Chinook run timing

Dan noted that the run timings aren&#39;t boxes but have a gradual decrease/tail at the end of the distribution. Adam discussed how this is the timing in the model for all months, and that the growth, survival, and movement/outmigration rulesets are based on the SIT&#39;s conceptual model. That is, although the timing figure has boxes the SIT&#39;s rulesets allows the model to capture the gradual decrease/tails. The group agreed to the timing of the Chinook runs.

## Discuss spring run Chinook

The group discussed the uncertainty associated with where spring run population are. The group filled out a worksheet to decide which tributaries will be seeded with adult spring run, which tributaries can &quot;accept&quot; strays, and which tributaries will be included when calculating the SIT&#39;s metrics for prioritization. It was noted that San Joaquin has an experimental population that comes from Feather River stocks. Josh said that the number released are in SacPAS under the coded wire tag tables (starting in 2015). He said you can track % loss of CWT salvage and that the SJ program maintains their own website about fish there. It was noted that fish return to Big Chico and then they all die. Cottonwood has a tributary that has spring run, but have to get all the way up there and we don&#39;t know how often they get up there.

## Marching Orders

Shane

- Share the memo on Sturgeon efforts
- Send out compiled watershed expert meeting information
- Contact Levi to get an update on screening projects for larger diversions

Adam

- Check on the number of released spring run in the San Joaquin River